Test one, two, test, test, test.
It seems to me that so much that began a kind of monastic tradition, and the idea that what you're talking about is that there's a kind of parallel, you know, heading towards the millennium monastic movement of people rediscovering books, caring for books, arming their own selves about reading.
Well, that's going to be a chapter in this book.
What I got from my husband's birthday recently was an Italian grandma
The Puro's grandfather.
And in it, the Puro's grandfather has written his own poem after getting thrown out of Harvard.
We have Henry James' pop.
You do?
Are you a real collector?
Oh, we are.
My husband said, I can't wait for you to meet because we have a lot of stuff to talk about.
No, we do.
We try to connect.
What I did with this book afterwards is there were a couple books that I bought after this book.
One was a room of our zone sign.
Prelude, which is the manuscript, the first copy.
So just a number of things, tracking down books.
But the books as the objects, the marginalia, I'm very interested in.
Oh, exactly.
There's a conference in Cambridge in England.
This is why I might go to a marginalia conference.
My wife says, a marginalia conference.
Are you going to do a chapter?
Yeah, of course I am.
Don't you think that's important?
When I was at the University of Toronto, they brought out this book, Montcalm, and it's the book, I can't do it justice right now, but basically he's written in this book, this whole poem about
It's actually, we're not doing a very good job.
It just happens to be a book that itself is filled with history.
All of it, the marginality.
When I buy a book by an author I love, and especially if it's signed, what I do, the first thing I do is go ahead.
I'm going to write a column on this.
I'm writing a little book, two books.
Your spare time.
I don't want to do it, but it's about collecting.
All I can do in my sleep.
But everybody knows you should have a perfect fine book that has this pristine book.
I would much rather have a book that has been written in, that you can see where it strikes to what you've written about in your own book.
You really need to see that.
Owen Gingrich, you know Owen Hartford?
Pauline's only in my neighborhood.
Pauline is stuck his life, tracking down every copy, every actual physical copy of the 1st and 2nd edition of Copernicus all over the world.
Why is he done that?
Nice to see that.
He wants to see how they influence the individual owners.
Is there marginally other annotations in there?
Because somebody said this is the greatest book that's never been read.
You have a beautiful feeling about, you know, potent and I'm forever, ever giving finding books under the stack.
that I say, this really should be a moment, I'm sorry.
And it's an incredible thing.
And the whole history of this book, I have to get into it.
Do you do that?
I do that all the time.
Do you turn them over?
I turn them over, for example.
Tell me about this, if you don't.
Okay, no, no, for example.
No, no, for example.
And your capacity as a teacher at Harvard?
Yeah, I go in and the main thing is, you know, I try to still teach one course there so I can use the library, I mean, because that's all that I really want.
That's really all that I have, so I'll teach one memoir writing class at the extension just to keep learning.
Well, my idea of heaven is to spend
22 hours a day in the Bough of Widener.
Really?
Do you have any idea how good this quote?
No, I saw, for example, in Lamont, which is the undergraduate library, which is where they take out, and the debaters take out chapters of books,
One day I pulled down the shelf, Emerson saw his recollections about his father, and I opened it up, and it's signed by Sarah Orangelo, and it's her copy.
And so I went to the desk and said, listen, you have two copies here, but you know that this room,
And now, about a year ago, before Gisela sees me, they sell me for a lot of money.
She has, she has.
So I found that, okay, when I have
Sarah Oren Jewett's copy of Marjorie Fleming.
This was in Widener.
This is in Widener.
Signed on one of her earliest signatures.
So I said this has to go in.
And then also Marjorie Fleming's
The cousin she stayed with Isabella married this naturalist, Wilson, who was one of those great naturalists.
I found his book on the staff
in the philosophy, geography section and I went in and I said this should be in Houghton, at Wellesley, it's in the rare collection.
Will we be able to get the actual title of these books?
Yeah, absolutely.
Okay, think of it.
I hope at some point, seriously, in your discussions
We could have you to dinner or something because we could, my husband is a great, great, great, great, I mean, his whole world is going to be a collector.
Yeah.
But he has a lot of people.
Book people.
Remember the title of it is Book People, Book Places, and Book Culture.
Oh, yeah.
I want to do a chapter on Sarah April.
Okay.
Susan Sontag has in her house.
I wanted to get Susan Sontag because she doesn't get anything to her side.
I think... You don't.
Would you?
Yeah, I could.
I tried to repress G and they said don't even try, so I didn't try.
I will.
Because she has a tile from the library in Sarajevo.
She's got your house.
And the other thing too is my husband, for example, whose parents were Ukrainian intellectuals who fled the Communists.
I'm going to just tell you about Ukrainians.
It's post-Soviet book culture.
Okay, well here's one of the aspects.
Isn't this book too ambitious?
No, no.
It's wonderful.
It should be what Virginia Woolf talks about a diary.
It should be a capacious hold-all.
It should be so elastic.
and it should have everything that should be eclectic.
His grandfather was a teacher and a great book collector.
He left his library, my husband's grandfather, left his fantastic library with sort of the earliest Ukrainian grammar, a very literate library, very, very literate library.
left it in the Archbishop's Palace.
And his parents went back after the fall of the Soviet Union and went back and saw this collection there now under glass that they all own.
So there's a lot of stories around that.
You've got to have it.
You just have to come to dinner.
Come to dinner.
Well, get together.
Come to dinner at that place.
But I actually want to see his stuff more.
Okay.
Yeah, my husband, I have to say,
us that just keep the credit card down because, you know, we just got a catalog for some auction, which you probably got for the one about autographed letters.
And we were going through and he goes, oh, really cool letters.
I'm like, you know, I'm saying postcards.
We could give you a tremendous amount of material.
I mean, did you know that?
Right, right, right.
For that period when there was no Poland.
Right, which is often.
I mean, when it was ruled by the National Library of Poland was in Paris.
I didn't know that either.
And right, John said, check it out.
It's a fascinating story.
They have more stuff about Poland than they have from Poland.
Well, I never quite understood that connection because there were a lot of, you know, certainly Polish other grades and Poles, but one of the things that your story is so interesting is that also when you think about Art Plunder and all the wonderful stories of how things were stored, including in Monte Cassino and why not libraries?
You know, they were moved.
That's right.
They moved all of that stuff from Rome down to Monte Cassino and luckily it survived.
Right, right.
I can't just write because I want so I can read it.
I'm going to just constantly bring it forward.
St.
Gaul, I mentioned, there are almost 10 libraries, but you have to do a week to spend a week.
A brand new library.
I've already been to a brand new British library.
Nobody has been in to live every day, so I've left such a day in there.
The new German library, which opens in two weeks.
Now in Leipzig,
Go ahead.
Let's talk about this.
I was going to say Omari Rousseff.
Double-rated... ...over the last 10 years, double-rated their sellers.
They're going to do it in your public library, and they're asking you to pick 10 books that you think in order
My number one pick was the Anne Frank.
I picked that number one.
I picked up some slavery number two.
and then the next six, whatever they were.
That's fascinating.
And Frank's book, and I think that's a good way to enter the discussion about your book.
What is it about that book?
It's private.
Do you think she meant for this to be right?
It's private and yet it's universal, isn't it?
It's private and it's universal, but I think that one of the things that strikes us so much about why Anne Frank's diary, you know, has such a heart in our imaginations, a couple of things, first of all, because it's the one voice that stands for the six million that were sounded, not sort of a given.
But I think it's something about diary that this is what always fascinated me.
was that Anne Frank, as you know, was given this diary as a birthday present.
And every night when she wrote in it, she deposited her diary and put it in her father's briefcase.
So you have a hidden diary and a hidden briefcase in a secret annex.
So you have all sorts of conjugations of violence.
At the same time, what people aren't terribly aware of, because what we think of this is, you know, the first thing is about a sort of Holocaust story, is that Anne Frank realized that she wanted to use her diary to become a writer, and she talks about to use her diary as the basis of a book that she was going to write after the war.
And so what most people don't know about Anne Frank's diary is that she started to rewrite the diary.
She was rewriting it all the way up to the last sort of month or so.
But she was changing scenes, adding scenes.
She started to keep notebooks with other stories.
She kept notebooks of reading lists.
Essentially, without anybody in secret and it's knowing she was turning herself into a world.
It was a work in progress.
It was a work in progress, but what I think it does is that, for me, I think, you know, when I read this, you know, when I was young, one of the things is that I saw that it was this rehearsal
of ambition.
It wasn't just confession, but this is a rehearsal of somebody who wanted to become a writer.
It was a wonderful entry in there.
It's, I think, May 11, 1944, where she says,
she addresses that the diary is you, and she says, oh my God, I can get you the exact quote, but she says, you know, you've known for a long time that my greatest wish is to become a writer, a journalist, and that she was training herself, and I love her, to be a writer, but what people don't know is the fact that she was editing the diary, and the only reason it survived is
which is when the Nazis needed, they took the briefcase, they dumped everything on the floor, and the papers were rescued.
But I think the other thing, that diary has a kind of emblem of what I think most diaries
even though most people will say, I'm only writing for myself.
But I think it's almost impossible to write without wondering who the audience is.
And Virginia Woolf said, who do I tell when I tell a blank page?
But I think that the fact that Anne Frank's diaries survived and went into 52 different languages, I think in some ways underlined it secretly with every diary keeper's, which is
Maybe my diary will go off and come down pretty well.
In my book, when I went to see the Peeps Library, what's very important is that Peeps, I mean, these are the 3,000 books.
Not only are these the 3,000 books, but this is where you sell them, and how you sell them, and they must never be moved.
I was fascinated with your book about that because I've never, I love Cambridge and I've never seen
Yeah.
And also, you know, it was interesting, and I was wondering about the secret code that he wrote, and you sort of explained this.
Not a code, no.
Exactly, which I thought was fascinating.
He took it out of a book on a shorthand book.
Well, don't you think that, I mean, even that da Vinci kept
a notebook, and as you say, it's not really the earliest diary, but what we have is that he keeps this in hand way, and it can only be read when it's held up to a mirror, and you have somebody like Pete keeping it in something other than accessible.
I mean, you have to work at reading.
You can't just penetrate it.
That's for sure.
I love the fact that you reminded us that
And they did this for 48 years, and their marriage, I think, is one of the most... Well, it's typical, but what I think that shows, their marriage, you know, is from the beginning, from the beginning, one of her first entries is about him.
Well, I think they were problematic.
The Toasters used their diaries like the way most modern couples use divorce attorneys to kind of litigate with one another.
But diaries were also measures of ambition in that marriage.
She used her diary in many ways as much to chronicle her becoming his unofficial literary agent, starting her own publishing company.
chronicling her own stories that she was writing, and then wanting the copyrights.
I mean, one of the reasons, you know, he left was he owned the copyrights to his diaries, not just to the novels.
And he started to lock them away from her.
I think the thing that's so extraordinary is that when she copied out War and Peace seven times and it ran 3,000 manuscript pages and so she was copying that out, her daughter would then become a cottage industry of diary transcribers and, you know,
I think the thing is that what is it that there is a long tradition
people who use other people's diaries for creative work.
I mean, we have William Wordsworth going through Dorothy's diary, which is one of the first entries in there, and she said she's keeping her diary because it will give William pleasure.
And they had this tacit agreement that he could read, and so many of them, you know, that
Did you ever read a book about 15 acres stole by a whale?
No.
And it's basically Melville's reading of the diary from the Essex.
And he borrowed it overnight.
What was the Essex all about?
That's the only recorded instance of a ship being sunk by a whale.
And what does the novelist keep?
And what does the novelist find?
I mean, the story about the survival of those open boats is spectacular.
It's unbelievable.
It's horrific.
It's true surprise.
Let's see who it can cancel out.
And that didn't get into movies, you know.
That's what's so interesting about diaries, and I think especially writers' diaries, where they have all that raw detail and go back to use it.
What they choose to use is just as important as what they choose not to use.
Exactly.
You say that in your book as well.
And you have things like, you know, one of my favorite journals is, and I think it's closer to how most people think, and somebody like Catherine Mansfield,
Journalists literally have titles of short stories that she used to write, followed by shopping lists where she puts up a price of tea and marmalade, followed by which is a meditation on marriage, followed by which is an idea for a future short story.
But she calmed Cheating Wolf, ran back and calmed their diaries during the dry seasons of their writing life for what they could pull out for future novels.
It was all in there.
To The Lighthouse had that
It was triggered by that single image of an acorn going across the floor, you know, which is something that had been in her mind a long time in her diary.
I love the way we started in the hospital drugs.
Nine years old.
Obviously, this is a lifelong passion.
It's a lifelong fascination, I think.
But one of the things that I come from, like many people who would probably read your poem, I come from a family of hidden writers.
I come from several generations of diary keepers.
My grandmother kept a traditional chronicle diary joining the Red
loss as a literacy
When I was eight, I was given a diary by my mother, and I'll come back to that.
When I was 11, I found my mother's own diaries and drafts of stories in the linen castle.
My sister, who is now in her 60s, keeps in Hope News Journal, drafted novels while rising through a kid.
What I saw going through all of these is his instinct to write.
I go back to when I was giving a diary, and I thought, this is wonderful.
My family knows that I like
in the introduction, what I could not articulate, it took me many years, but what bothered me is that a diary was for self-expression, but why did I need a lock?
And what went through, all looking in my immediate family, they had silence and ambition.
There was everything within me, and yet there was this enormous ambition,
her career in self-expression.
I think that's what we see in Anne Frank's journals.
I think that's why we read writers' journals.
We love eavesdropping on these narrative lines to know how, in fact, did they learn to, how did they invent themselves in their diaries, because they do.
I mean, Mantua talks about burning like huge complaining diaries of her childhood.
The one she kept, though, from 19 on, is where she's still complaining about, you know, things in her diaries.
But from 19 on, she's starting to use her diaries as a sketch pad.
She's starting to think about short stories.
She's starting to write over her dialogue.
All of these diaries, I think that people have loved it.
are great working records of creative life.
And when I was certainly starting out in my 20s as a writer, I was so hungry for information about creative life.
It seemed to me when I walked into a bookstore, it was a kind of miracle.
How do books get written, let alone published, but how do they get written?
How does somebody negotiate that obstacle course?
not just an external one, but an internal one of self-sensorship, perfectionism, the invisible lock that's on the diary, and where I kept going back to again and again with writer's diaries.
But creativity, clearly, this is not just about a diary.
No, this is really... I think we should make that point.
This is a... It's really a book about literary creativity.
I was interested in
and the fact that it paralleled my own life so far, that there are wonderful values for each stage of a writer's life, from childhood to old age.
And so I've tried to do the book where it begins with a seven-year-old genius child, ends with a writer at the beginning of junior at 60, and going into her 80s with the girl.
And in between, what were all the stages?
You have something like the James family, which I think most people could relate to today.
What do you do when you're a very smart creative person yourself, and yet you're born into a family that tells you you must excel, that your one brother has become one of the world's great novels, the other is a great psychologist,
You moved to another country, you gave a diary at 40, and don't tell anybody you're taking this diary.
They don't find out until after you're there.
So how do you keep the creativity alive in a competitive family?
It's very interesting why I was saying she thought that.
It was a wonderful role that told us to come together among the other two brothers.
Exactly.
I'm so kidding.
They couldn't cope with it at all.
They couldn't cope.
You know, at the Harvard Faculty Club, there's that little box-off box, you know, and it said, it's only Alice, Henry, and William, and nobody knows about the other two.
They served because the other brothers didn't.
They just couldn't cope with it at all.
They couldn't cope with it at all.
What I love now about these diaries too, it's just like your book, the stories in a story, something like when Wolf and Mansfield met, I was haunted by this image that they sat at this suburban dinner party, like so many people here, and not knowing how much they were going to influence each other's life, the good and bad, but what they didn't know at that dinner party was that their husbands were going to make small fortunes,
ten times more.
And he was somebody who was a literary empoderator who understood how to take her very informed doing this, which is full of unsent letters and shopping lists and wonderful ideas on creativity.
And he fashioned them into this world bestseller.
But what I could, you know, I loved
You know, I love reading Kafka's notebooks.
I love all of them.
You almost were destroyed when you came right there.
You are going to be destroyed.
I thought they were, you know.
And so I often talk to people, I say, they tell, really, they have no rights.
And people say, what do you mean they have no rights?
I always come back with me with the example.
Well, I guess Max Ward should have gone ahead and destroyed.
Right.
By the way, in that autograph there, and that is coming up, there's a letter address to police, and the return address is fantastic.
What do you feel when you hold something in?
Because you can't tell them, you know, that there's not magic.
There is magic and, you know, when I was in the Blue Collection holding Virginia Woolf's Diaries and select for the end paper, you know, I opened it up and it did it nice.
Well, I wanted a page where, yet again, she's making another resolution about something about writing.
So here she is in August 1923 saying, yet again, this time I'm going to try to write with, as opposed to against the grain.
What I love is not only hardiness, but seeing, just like Samuel Johnson, that every writer is constantly giving themselves pep talks all the way through, no matter how famous they are, they use their diaries as much after they've been published to meditate on fame and envy and all sorts of things.
but they become remarkable adjuncts to creative life, and that's what I love about them.
I think what's happening with technology is sort of what I do for the epilogue,
We're wired to corruption, and there are a lot of people writing, and what people want is the kind of uninterrupted time.
They want solitude, which is one of the reasons that the Journal of Solitude is still a topic.
in Japan at the moment, it's a country without any solitude, and they find in May Sarton, they find in May Sarton, you know, the absolute significance of their life.
What do they have?
You know, here's a woman who is supposedly by herself in New Hampshire and in Maine, with time to write and inventing a life of solitude.
The people who loved the book most were women with two children.
But to get back to this question about technology, I think it's been a couple of things.
I think the technology is very alienating, and I think that diaries are a way that people come back to some sense of real self-reflection.
Also, because of the technology, our lives are fragmented.
Diaries are the literature of interrupted life, and I think that it is the one form that people...
I mean, excuse me to say about that, but anyway, that people come back now to use the diary.
It's the only time, it's the only literary form or form of internal reflection that people have time for.
But also there is a kind of connection to, I think,
technology for the amount of men who have journals.
I think we'll say, you know, women are for the diaries, keeping the diaries in men as journals.
But I've just noticed in teaching, for example, memoir writing, that a quarter of the class are men, they all keep some form of a journal.
They start from college on, but the fact that they can keep them uncomputed with a password has allowed a lot of note to do with it.
They don't necessarily tell you initially they're doing it, but they keep journals.
Exactly, that's what I keep, exactly.
No problem.
Well, I delivered 1,000 net loads a day.
How many do you do?
Certainly 1,000.
I told earlier that there was some writer that I interviewed said 1,000 a day.
I said, fine, that's my goal, I can do that.
My columns are 900 to 1,000.
It takes a little longer than that.
Well, I can do that.
Not words.
I mean, the first word process allows us to count the words, but I can't do that.
So what I would keep alive, and what I would start for this long, it would be more than that.
It wasn't just the whole thing like Ms.
Dr. J. standing in.
I would say what I'm doing.
There's got to be long entries in why something I was having a problem with, angrier, just whatever it were I'm studying.
It was kind of like a beginning exercise.
So many of these writers used their diaries for exactly that as a five-finger exit as a way to get going, to warn them for writing.
Or somebody like Woolf used it at the end of the day when she'd released the internal critic.
She had the diary propped on her knee after tea and wrote, as she said of that, a haphazard gallop to try to find the diamonds in the dust heap because the internal critic had been relaxed.
But it was impossible not to use these as sketchbooks, all of them.
But then you have somebody like Thoreau who, as you know, wrote two million words in his 39 notebooks, you know, peeling off Birkbarge when he didn't walk into his office because he needed paper to write something down, whose friends complained that... It's about a big pencil.
...in the Concord Library.
Have you ever seen them?
It is lovely.
The Concord Library is going to be in my own book.
I love that library.
Me too.
It's in my book.
It's going to be in the new book.
Excellent.
Libraries, Franklin Libraries.
I'm so glad to come to you.
I actually love to get a library card in the Concord, and they said, oh, we live in Medford, and that's already part of the chain.
But I wanted to make a Concord Public Library.
It disturbs me.
I've read certain places and they don't give me a card.
I want a card.
I remember here.
I keep all, for all the libraries that I had to go, I keep it, even if it's like a week pass,
all of these things.
The National Library of Scotland, I mean all of these.
Well, Houlton doesn't give you one.
I know, I know.
But I think the library is a nice one.
It's very important for you to handle the real stuff.
I have a lot to say about that.
First of all, it's just the
a wide variety of how people kept journalism and everything from little pocket books to Virginia Woolf kept diaries that her sister did the marbleized paper for and each year was different.
Someone like Mae Sarton dictated at the end, her entries into a sunny paper corridor because she
you can build by illness, so all of those are types.
You just see this whole variety.
But for me, part of it also was to see where people wrote.
The diary is the fact that it's portable.
They wrote everywhere.
This is something they brought with them, like a small oxygen tank, you feel, to kind of keep the idea going.
But it was important to hold all these things.
I felt that it linked me
to writers who I've loved, and the same way that they read all the diaries that preceded them.
So people read backwards in order to move themselves forward.
But there's something about holding these diaries, and including, you know, going to UCLA to the rare book collection of the Niased Means diaries, because I had to find out
if in fact the first volume that was published in the 60s bore no relationship to The Real Diary, and it doesn't.
It bears no relationship.
And one of the couple things,
It taught me how much she learned to invent herself as a writer and her daughters because she kept rewriting them and rewriting.
The first volume that came out in the 60s is extremely well written.
It's really essentially one of the first one of the early memoirs.
But she's done it in the form of a diary.
You point out that Chris O'Connor is successful.
So she was no full she.
Oh, no full she.
She's the most commercially successful diarist of the 20th century.
Maybe it's not really a diary.
It's not.
And I think the other thing too, that collection is so crazy because it's kept under lock and key that you have to get
special permission to even go into the collection from her second husband.
This is like the second bigamous husband group of poems out in Los Angeles, who said, you know, yes, you can do it.
Then he gave me access to sort of everything.
Her early galleries read like most people's, like I did this today, and they're not very interesting.
But then as you go on the years, as she's rewriting them,
The writing gets so much better.
She starts to find a story.
All of a sudden, we have Henry Miller showing up.
All of a sudden, she frames this as a kind of menage a trois.
This becomes part of that first volume.
And I remember reading these in college and being very disturbed, thinking, how does she support herself?
You know, she always seems to have a lot of men in the photographs, but she seems to always be by herself.
So when we found out what was really going on in the life,
I felt, I didn't feel betrayed in the way that so many people did.
I just thought, this is hilarious, because it was a kind of, she was constantly campaigning for kind of publicity of the self.
Whatever form got out, it was a diary, a memoir, or whatever.
Did you even read this diary?
I didn't, I've read them, but I've never seen them.
I remember when the diaries and the letters came out at about the same time.
I forget what they said, one of them.
I forget whether it was the letters of a diary.
I think the diaries were written very well and the letters were unreadable.
And they said the reason was he did the diary in the morning when he was sober and he wrote the letters at night when he was sober.
Well, also, he had such an laugh about social persona.
One of my favorite wall stories, you probably know this, and I forget who the writer was.
I don't know who the writer was, but there was a writer about to do a reading and he had a hard time hearing, put down his ear trumpet from the guy started to read.
So I think that his diary I do believe that was better written.
What I love about your book too is that it just so flies in the face of this
concept that we should go by the text of the book.
That the biography and the other stuff is irrelevant.
No, no, no.
That's been pretty much discredited.
I hope it has.
I hope it has because one of the things when we talk about this is why I love so many of the working notebooks of Kafka or
Fitzgerald, that they left out the life.
And I wanted to know, I don't think that you can talk about literary creativity without wanting to know a lot about the life somewhere.
And in these other diaries, it was there.
It was quickly there.
Any great surprises for you once it became a work in progress, once it became a project?
About the actual diary themselves?
Yeah.
Discoveries in the course of the university.
I think just how these diaries liberated their writers to become better writers, ironically, how the diaries stopped
just the self-reflection that became literary.
The other thing is that there's not a single diary, including my group, I mean, who didn't expect that her diaries were going to be read afterwards.
And so they used the diary as an audience and the writer herself.
And that was, I wonder if it's possible to keep a diary without thinking...
I just wonder if it's possible to keep a diary without wanting somebody to read it on some level.
Alice James started to address this as the dear unknown.
You know that the intention there is that, and I bet you noticed that the writing gets a lot better.
The writing gets much better.
I think the other thing that I love, though, that I found out is how dangerous diaries keeping is.
You know, we know that Henry burned his copy of Alice's diary, Thomas Carlisle burned Jane's, and one of the few things that's left in her diaries is how she records after a duchess has been murdered, the man, the husband, saying something like,
You know, what could a man do with a woman who kept a wife who kept a diary but murdered her?
So we have, you know, a lot of instances where people needed to burn the diaries, which is again coming back to Anne Frank, why I think there's an incredible poignant intention in the fact that this exists, because most diaries do not.
Did you read Ann Michaels' novel, The Future of Pieces?
I'm so behind it.
I'm like about 20 years behind it.
And they were Ryan at 9 and then Robert Hughes at 11.
Two of my favorite writers.
I love them.
And this weekend is spent.
I love Edna Bryant and I love Robert Hughes, actually.
I've never entered Hughes before.
This will be a little bit poor thing to do for Brian.
Well, bring about 10 taper footage for Hughes.
He's so cool.
Yeah, he's wired.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
I interrupted.
It's terrible.
You just had a...
You worked for the Christian Science Foundation.
You interviewed many, many authors.
Did this kind of fire your enthusiasm for this project?
It did.
Two things.
I started out as a book reviewer.
I started out as a book reviewer and a literary essayist.
My whole idea was to try to find out how to become a writer.
So there were two ways to do it.
First of all, I noticed that there were huge amounts of diaries being published in the late 70s, and that's part of what sparked this project.
And I knew there were a lot of people hungry for information about creative life, but I was one of them.
So one of the things that I did, as you know as a journalist, is you have licensed audacity.
You can just call up a publisher and say, I'd like to interview Zinger or whoever.
Let me tell you some cute stories.
There are people that I can't get on my own for my book.
Can I just wait until I have your own book coming up?
I really want Maurice Sunder.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, he's impossible.
But he'll do an interview.
But he's doing something this fall, and I really want him.
He's a major collector.
Major collector.
And collected.
And collected equipment.
The stuff that he knows influences his work.
I mean, I remember the story true.
He actually went and spent the night and got permission to sleep in all of those books.
Now, is that a great story?
See, I think it's like Flaubert's carrot, you know, it's the kind of fixation we all have.
And I know when I would go interview these writers, part of it really was to ask them the kind of Paris review questions.
Of the level, do you use a typewriter or a pen?
I wanted to know all those habits.
And, you know, essentially what I kept trying to find in diaries was practical as well as literary as well as spiritual kind of information.
And so that's what I also tried to get from these profiles.
It was wonderful.
That's why I do it.
Yeah.
Oh, it's the best life.
It's a door for the money of the thing.
I do it for the... But anyway, I love meeting the authors.
and my collection is unique.
I mean, I, in a way, embrace the authors.
I meet them, and then I write about them.
Exactly.
How do people consider you a collection that buys an office who you've met?
And also that each one spawns like 20 others, you know, where you say, I mean, I have all sorts of people that, you know, first of all, you have to kind of, you know, as I keep tediously saying, but my husband will be a rich vein for a lot of the things you're doing, and just a love of
a deep, deep collector.
Again, this new book is, I hope, going beyond the collection.
Oh, no, no, I know.
No, I know.
It's people who love books.
We are great book lovers.
But I think the thing, too, and this is an awful thing to say, but I think that the market is such that people think, well, the whole shift in publishing, we're only interested in kind of memoir, we're interested in
The thing that I find so fascinating in terms of memoir, a couple of things, the very secrets have been locked up for centuries.
Now people comb their diaries with an eye of writing memoir, and so diaries instead of seeing as something locked up are in fact something that are a stepping stone to writing.
But just the whole thing that when you go out and do readings, the amount of real
lovers of writing, love reading.
I mean, at the book on Dick Smith the other night, there were a hundred people who wanted us to hear about dialogue, to hear about the rate of life.
You know, and that's... And we're talking, we're not all talking, I mean, this is everybody from, you know, I'd say people in their early 20s through their late 60s.
And I think that the, you know, the market underestimates the intelligent reader out there.
That's in New York.
You know, I keep saying when I, you know, just before reading that no book comes into the world alone.
It's helped by many other people.
But I kept taking up this book from Wagner.
And when I noticed whether it was a book on Marjorie Fleming's diaries,
that the book plate all came from the same family, from Lucy Osgood.
And then I noticed that Lucy Osgood lived in Medford, Massachusetts, where I lived.
Not to publish her, Osgood.
So I thought, I'm going to find out who Lucy Osgood was.
Lucy Osgood,
was the daughter of a Unitarian minister.
It was the place that Emerson later went and visited.
Lucy Osgood was self-taught by her father, you know, Greek, Latin, five languages, because I found this out later researching here in the library.
But she grew up a century-plus
ago five blocks from me she was an old maid she left the tonic network at the library she left in her will uh 30 acres for the library and she left her book now the weird thing is her fund was used for very eclectic
All of them were the subjects in my book.
There was one for Marjorie Fleming, one for Samia Tolstoy, and there was something else for the book.
And then I went to look at them.
I found them.
I wanted a computer and found them at Osgood.
There were two sisters.
I looked up Lucy.
Lucy has, she's in Weidler, somebody who did her funeral oration, a minister.
And she was this remarkable hidden writer, five blocks from me.
And I felt like Lucy Osgood, who sat writing five blocks from me in Medford, left money that was going to allow me to find books that I could use to write this book.
It's as if, you know, you talk about the box coming back and forth.
It really gave me the chills because I kept thinking... These were book themes, you know, the Auschwitz were.
They were two spinster sisters.
Their father, Gondel Harvey, was a minister.
So somebody...
sad, through boring New England days, writing, wanting to be a writer, leaving her books, and then a century plus later, five blocks away, that legacy would help me write my book.
Yeah, wonderful.
At the Concord Public Library, they have books, and I can't think of the woman's name, but she was the first kindergarten, you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
Right, right.
gave her books, and they had her books.
That's one very early.
You know, also you mentioned finding books in the library that were circulating, signed by duet nomes.
Up until 20 years ago, they have all of Emerson's and fellow's books.
They were in general circulation.
And somebody stole Emerson's copy of all of them.
It showed up that it was going to go for like $150,000, and that's when they discovered it was out of the library.
It's not a fact.
This is now on this floor.
Can you imagine how big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big, big.
in general circulation.
Well, his son's was, you know, a Jewish copy of his son's book was in general circulation in Lamont.
Gee, actually, Columbia has this, they've just created a new designation of a book, which is cute, but they call it non-new rare.
Well, I mean, what you described are rare books, but books that,
They're really not real books, but they're old books, and they're falling apart, and they're in circulation, and maybe we don't want the students to take them out and grab a seal, and they have to read it here.
If you want a zero object, they'll make an individual decision on whether or not they're allowed it, so maybe they're actually designated these books as a medium layer.
I love that.
I love the detectives that go into all of this.
And one of the great things about having a wonderful library here is when I, you know, nobody's ever heard of Marjorie Fleming, you know, she is Twain's and Stevenson's favorite goddess, but nobody's heard of her.
All the people surrounding her, all the books that she gave to her, all the books,
that were around her story, all in open shelves.
And I just loved doing, you know, I went to Scotland doing a lot of detective work, and a lot of it I ended up having to do just in my own backyard here, because they had all the books here.
Oh, I think that's a lot of money.
That means 90% of my money.
I love your quote early on.
Is this a quote that you get from Bellow a writer as a reader?
Emulation, yeah.
This is something I remember reading.
I stole it from something else.
Isn't it wonderful?
And that is my story.
It's the story of all the writers in this book.
It is what I suspect who will read this book, people who are interested in creativity, who may be readers, but don't know that they're possibly writers as well.
You know, I did, you mentioned Betsy Lerner, I guess she's on that issue, by chance related to Bertha Lerner, you know.
I don't know.
I haven't seen the last one.
My husband is guarding me spiritually.
He takes a long time.
You get the thrill of history of your own as well as where you are and the continual history.
You know, one of the things that I'm always not surprised by when you go to antiquarian book shows,
that you look at the prices of ordinary journals.
They're sometimes thousands and thousands of dollars.
What is it that, what are we really buying?
We're buying a life that sort of existed.
I mean, there's something about, if this were written, if that same boring journal were published, nobody'd buy it.
But there's something about holding it.
Why do you suppose the University of Texas with their life out of one of these little, not books, but manuscripts, why did all the people Xerox them by their own pure selfishness?
To maintain the value.
Michael Holwood had his friend, all of the sharp stuff is there.
And he wouldn't do any copies for the end.
He wouldn't spend two or three weeks in Austin for months.
Well, that place, that place is, I mean, talk about the reverse British Empire, you know, just brought up all literary Britain.
That's one of my favorite chapters in that book.
The Institute of New Guinea-Orania chapter.
Yeah, but I'm curious.
It's amazing that they allowed that to happen down there.
Like they gave him free reigns.
Well, thank God.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you.
Great.
I think we have a lot of subject to this.
Yes, I will.
I will carry my own pants.
I hope you don't get anything.
And you must say, tell me from your taste.
If I ever need a question about how hard you are.